# KIC6780873
Fall 2019 Independent Study w/ David W. Hogg, for AAS235
AAS 235 Abstract:
Tuning a stellar FM radio: Finding planets and stellar companions with frequency demodulation of asteroseismic modes.
Certain kinds of hot stars have very strong seismic oscillations with long coherence times. This makes them like precise clocks for timing experiments. In addition, many hot stars have stellar and substellar companions. Some of these companions have been found previously by searching for phase variations in these strong, coherent oscillation modes. Of course the binary companion induces not just phase shifts but also frequency shifts (Doppler shifts) in the asteroseismic modes. This suggests the question: Can we find the companions with something akin to an FM (frequency modulation) radio demodulator? There are many kinds of FM demodulators. We consider, for this first project, a demodulator that works on the difference of two AM demodulators sitting on either side of a finite bandwidth centered on the carrier frequency, and integrate the differences over a time set by the inverse of the bandwidth. We build a demodulator with these properties and tune it (in both carrier frequency and bandwidth) to detect companions in NASA Kepler Mission data around a few hot stars with strong asteroseismic modes and known companions. We recover some known companions and demonstrate the range of applicability of FM demodulation to the search for binary stars. We comment on the differences between finding stars by frequency modulation and by phase modulation; these methods have different statistical properties. These methods could be of relevance to planet and companions search with Kepler, TESS, and Plato Mission data.
